Hello everybody and welcome.
We're going to dive straight into a challenge.
I'd like you to go ahead and close the doors.
Now what do I mean by that.
Well I'd like you to go ahead and create the necessary code to close the door when you've done that.
The doors should be closed whenever the player is not in the trigger volume.
There are there are a couple of ways that you could go ahead and do this at the moment.
I would suggest trying to remain with the initial your as being the starting point of whether it is
opening or closing doesn't matter which one.
However if you wanted to have different angles for open and shut then of course you may want to consider
separating that out.
That's entirely up to you.
I'm going to keep mine relatively simple.
So go ahead Paul's video now and give us a go OK.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and create the code needed to close the doors.
OK so back over MVS code let's have a look at how open door because that is essentially going to be
a mirror almost for what's going to happen with closed door.
So despite what I'd usually warn people against with copying and pasting code when it comes to open
door and its similarities to closed door I think we can be excused by copying this chunk of code and
repeating it further down and changing the closed door.
Now this won't work straightaway.
There are going to be some other things that we need to do.
However that's a good start.
Okay.
So we've got that there we need to call closed or somewhere.
And we also need to add it to our header file so we've got our open door on line 26.
So let's go ahead and once again I'm going to just copy that and change open door to closed door.
So there we go.
Those are those two things done and dusted.
Where are we going to call this.
Well in this statement we say that if something is on our pressure plates then we want to open the door
and we could say else closed door.
I think that would be that would be fair enough.
But there is going to be a bit more code needed in order to for that to work.
Let's go see what happens at the moment.
If we go ahead and do this now because closed door is exactly the same as open door or we need to pass
delta time in the course because closed door and open door are the same at the moment.
There's going to be no difference.
But instead of going to a target you're which is really an open angle I'm thinking of changing target
your to open angle to be a bit more descriptive.
But instead of going to the target you're we're going to go to the initial your.
Let's say that and see what happens here.
In fact I'm also going to make the door close significantly quicker.
I'm going to make it close twice as fast or at least that's probably going to be more than twice as
fast.
Anyway let's go ahead save our work go over into unreal click compile.
OK.
The compile is complete.
Let's go ahead and press play.
Let's see what happens here so we're gonna walk into the corner.
Our doors open and when we go away they don't do anything.
Okay.
So what are we missing there.
I'm just going to compile again in case that didn't work.
I'm pretty sure my code closed door.
We're going to close or Yep that should be working.
Let's just hope it does now.
OK.
The compiles complete let's play go back.
Okay.
Doors opening and doors shutting.
Okay perfect.
So now we're in a position with that door opening.
Let's see if we can make it out of the room.
Go go go go go.
Okay so we've got the perfect trap at the moment and we really need to play test this.
That's the key thing here.
So there were a couple of ways in which we can go ahead and start altering this particular value.
So we have a look in our code we can change how quickly it's shutting and in fact you may want to expose
these as parameters that the game designer can fiddle with.
However it would be better if we could just hold the door open for so many seconds so that these values
don't have to be tweaked depending on the size of your room.
It'd be silly to have the door open and shuts at different rates just because of the distance you are
from it.
It makes more sense that the door is held open for a certain number of time.
And this is really the open door and closed door is really basically the animation working through code.
OK.
So that's what we're going to focus on in the next lecture and I'll see you over there.